---
title: Objects
---

import RelationTuplePrism from '@theme/RelationTuplePrism'
RelationTuplePrism()

Objects are identifiers for some kind of application objects. They can represent
e.g. a file, network port, physical item, ... . It is up to the application to
map its objects to an unambiguous identifier. We recommend the usage of UUIDs as
they provide a high entropy and thus unique identifiers. It is however totally
possible to use e.g. URLs or opaque tokens of any kind. Ory Keto will consider
objects equal iff their string representation is equal.

## Basic Example

In the basic case an application uses the same object identifiers as it uses
internally, e.g. a UUIDv4 like `61e75133-efff-4281-8148-a1806919f568` or SHA-1
hash like `5c6f593a4e12970d647843f97846fd5ed18179eb`.

Head over to the [basic full feature example](../examples/olymp-file-sharing) to
see an example with some context.

## Advanced Example: Encoding Application Information within Keto Objects

Because the Keto client can use arbitrary strings as objects, it is possible to
encode additional information within the object. The only characters not allowed
within the object string are Ory Keto's delimiters `:#@`. Please refer to the
documentation of your database for performance considerations, and the maximum
allowed string length.

For example, this could be used to implement crude checks on value ranges:

:::note

The notation of key-value pairs within `<>` is completely arbitrary and just
chosen here for readability.

:::

```keto-relation-tuples
// Members of the admins group are allowed to set a value v: 5 < v
values:<greater_than=5>#set_value@(groups:admins#member)

// Members of the devs group are allowed to set a value v: 2 < v <= f
values:<greater_than=2 smaller_equal=5>#set_value@(groups:devs#member)

// Anyone who can set a value v: 5 < v can also set 2 < v <= 5
values:<greater_than=2 smaller_equal=5>#set_value@(values:<greater_than=5>#set_value)
```

The application will have to translate an incoming "set value" request to the
corresponding range the value is in. It is important to understand that Ory Keto
does **not** know how to interpret any of the information like `greater_than`
and `smaller_equal` encoded in the object. Rather, the application has to
preprocess and transcode the value into the corresponding range representation.
